one of the responses those that enjoy " detroit rock city " ( probably kiss fans , mostly ) might have upon first glance at the rating i've given the film might be something like : " oh , that casey's gone and become a jaded critic on us . 	0
just what did he expect out of a dumb teenage rock n' roll movie like this ? " 	0
i'm wondering the same thing . 	0
i feel like i should have had a grand time with " detroit rock city . " 	0
it's the sort of movie i wish i could've had a lot of fun with , but i didn't . 	0
i just didn't . 	0
surely this film isn't trying to win any major awards , so should i have expected an oscar-caliber film ? 	0
no , but i expected something . 	0
a funny joke . 	0
a clever prank . 	0
a plot development . 	0
anything . 	0
the movie never delivers . 	0
you've got to marvel at how the filmmakers managed to come up with a movie that is truly about nothing . 	0
 " detroit rock city " is one of those films that you walk out of after the credits have rolled and realize that you just spent 90 minutes watching a movie in which absolutely nothing happened to justify the film's existence , and it's not a very satisfying realization . 	0
the film is about four teenage boys , all huge kiss fans from cleveland , trying to get into a kiss concert in detroit , michigan . 	0
that's it . 	0
there is no big plot description in this review , because the movie has very little plot . 	0
the characters are hawk ( edward furlong ) , lex ( giuseppe andrews ) , trip ( james debello ) , and jam ( sam huntington ) . 	0
they have a garage band . 	0
they're pathetic , like all garage bands , but they like kiss and they like rock n' roll , so i guess that means we root for them . 	0
they have tickets , they lose them . 	0
they get more tickets , they lose those too . 	0
they come up with crazy schemes to get tickets , most of which backfire . 	0
there's not much more to it . 	0
frankly , it becomes a little less than exciting to see them try to get kiss tickets about halfway through the film , when a total of eight tickets have already graced the boys' hands , only to be lost because of their sheer stupidity . 	0
oh , and jam ( real name jeremiah ) has a really , really annoying ultra-religious mother who ought to be reported to the child welfare agency . 	0
she doesn't want them to see kiss , if you hadn't figured that out already . 	0
it's really quite disheartening to see such a fine soundtrack go to waste in a pointless movie like this . 	0
we've got plenty of kiss , along with some ac/dc , ramones , and thin lizzy . 	0
then again , " maximum overdrive " had an awesome soundtrack ( me being the big ac/dc fan that i am ) , but is probably one of the worst movies of all time . 	0
 " detroit rock city " doesn't quite reach that level of ineptitude , but it gets dangerously close . 	0
in fact , the music is the only thing that keeps this movie from being a complete failure in my mind . 	0
basically , the soundtrack has earned the film a full half-star , which means all the bands involved can pat themselves on the back ( except for marilyn manson , whose half-hearted cover of ac/dc's " highway to hell " sounds like something my neighbor's cat coughed up ) . 	0
it's also really sad to see the talents of the cast go to waste , because it' s evident that they're all trying really hard to squeeze some life out of this dead turkey of a movie . 	0
edward furlong has done far better work than this , and so has natasha lyonne , and so has lin shaye , but hey , they've got to make a living in hollywood . 	0
people wanting to see kiss , and lots of it will probably be disappointed , considering the band appears for about five minutes and plays one song . 	0
too bad , they might have provided some energy to this mess . 	0
director adam rifkin knows he hasn't got much material to work with , so he takes a chapter from the michael bay book of directing and keeps his camera spinning . 	0
we get an endless parade of quick-cuts , split-screens , zoom-outs , zoom-ins , and rotating cameras , all in an effort to cover up the sheer stupidity of the script . 	0
it's fun for a while , but eventually it becomes disorienting . 	0
i would recommend that those who felt seasick at " the blair witch project " stay far away from " detroit rock city , " because the witch has got nothing on this baby . 	0
i haven't felt such an urge to reach out and hold the camera still since " armageddon . " 	0
and what about that script ? 	0
it's written by carl j . dupr ? , which sounds like as made-up a name as i've ever heard . 	0
if it is , i can't say i blame the writer for distancing himself as far from this script as possible . 	0
a plotless , pointless rock n' roll movie can be fun , if the jokes and gags are actually funny . 	0
the jokes in " detroit rock city " rarely are . 	0
in fact , the only time i really laughed was when a priest gets stoned on a marijuana-laced pizza , and that was just because it was so surreal . 	0
the rest of the movie just seems like they just threw a bunch of vulgar stuff up on screen and called it " comedy . " 	0
there is no set-up , just a succession of punchlines that don't provide for much in the way of chuckles , precisely because there was no set-up . 	0
it's as if they just whacked someone on the head , pointed at him and said , " see ? 	0
funny ! " 	0
look , that woman was so shocked by hearing loud kiss music that she spilled her drink . 	0
see ? 	0
funny ! 	0
look , that guy just got clocked by a telephone receiver . 	0
twice . 	0
see ? 	0
funny ! 	0
look , that kid has been vomiting for 20 minutes after drinking an inordinate amount of alcohol and is now about to perform an exotic dance for money . 	0
see ? 	0
funny ! 	0
a word of advice to mr . dupr ? : no , these things aren't funny all by themselves . 	0
they must be preceded by a clever set-up so the audience hasn 't predicted them five minutes in advance . 	0
that's it , i've said enough about this movie . 	0
it's a waste of time and money . 	0
i liked the music , but don't bother buying the soundtrack . 	0
i hear it' s just modern bands doing inferior versions of the songs that are actually in the movie . 	0
you want to see this concept executed well ? 	0
go rent roger corman's 1979 classic " rock n' roll high school . " 	0
it features another late-seventies rock band ( the ramones ) and a far more interesting story about a girl trying to get tickets to their show . 	0
yes , go rent that , and skip " detroit rock city , " which will probably bomb , and deservedly so . 	0
warning : spoilers are included in this review . . . 	0
but it doesn't really make much of a difference . 	0
deep impact begins the official summer movie season , and it also brings back memories of 1997 . 	0
remember when dante's peak came out in february ? 	0
a few months later , volcano was released . 	0
the first film was smart , exhilirating , and one of the best disaster films i had ever seen . 	0
the latter film was an incohesive mess that defied logic and wasted talent . 	0
well , it's deja vu all over again as two disaster films go head to head in competition . 	0
this time , unfortunately , the first comet flick is so bad that people may shy away from armageddon , the upcoming comet-disaster to be released the beginning of july . 	0
of course , the general reaction of the audience was oppposed to mine , and so i am in the minority , as i was when i stood on the side of dante's peak . 	0
but while watching deep impact , i began to wonder how anyone in their right mind could actually like this film . 	0
apparently many did , and it utterly baffles me . 	0
to be completely honest , i haven't had this little fun watching a disaster film in my entire life . 	0
volcano had implausibilities up the wazoo , but it was still rather fun to watch . 	0
deep impact doesn't just have implausibilities , it also contains cheap human drama , incredibly horrible special effects , and a poorly constructed plot . 	0
the only thing that gives it a half star above my bottom ranking is a slightly entertaining final fifteen minutes and some good actors making the most of their characters . 	0
deep impact begins in an unnamed year ( the year varies ; advanced technology sets it in the future , but fire in the sky is showing on a local movie theater , pushing it back to 1993 ) . 	0
a line of students is outside at night , peering through telescopes at the dark sky above . 	0
among these are leo biederman ( elijah wood ) and sarah hotchner ( leelee sobieski ) . 	0
leo unknowingly discovers a comet , and his teacher sends a photo of the unknown object to an astronomer , who then is able to determine the correct path of this distant comet in about a few seconds . 	0
he races off to mail the information , but is killed in a reckless car accident . 	0
a year passes , and nothing is heard about it again . 	0
we are then introduced to jenny lerner ( t ? a leoni ) , a reporter for msnbc . 	0
she gets handed a job to investigate a possible cover-up in the government involving senator alan rittenhouse ( james cromwell ) . 	0
she talks to a woman who mentions that rittenhouse was having an affair with a girl named ellie . 	0
after talking with rittenhouse , and unsatisfied with the information she gets , she decides to use the internet for help . 	0
luckily , she knows exactly how to spell the certain " ellie " that she is looking for ( they spell it ele in the film . . . 	0
that girl is pretty darn smart for guessing how it was spelled ) . 	0
before she can use the information , the government decides to push her car off the road . 	0
they take her in to meet the president of the united states , president beck ( morgan freeman ) . 	0
beck recommends that jenny keep the information secret for 48 hours so they can confirm it and then hold a press conference . 	0
naturally , she wants to be compensated , and they offer her a front row seat and the chance for the first question . 	0
and so , yada yada yada , they reveal the comet to the public and their plans : send a massive spacecraft out to destroy it before it can arrive . 	0
they announce a plan called " ark , " which is their only hope for survival . 	0
a computer will select 800 , 000 people at random . 	0
these people are the ones who will go into a large cave underground so that the impact of the comet won't kill off the entire human race . 	0
after two years , the dust will settle ( actually , it would take much , much longer--approximately ninety years , from what i understand ) and the humans could come back to the surface and start over . 	0
the rest of the plot is your standard disaster film procedures , but there is one subplot worth mentioning . 	0
jenny and her father , jason ( maximilian schell ) , have a very touching relationship that forms out of the impending doom . 	0
the final moment involving the two characters is heartfelt and emotional . 	0
it's a shame that nothing else is heartfelt . 	0
now , of course , we all know that the comet does impact the surface . 	0
the title alone suggests it , and the previews actually show it ! 	0
by doing this , absoltuely no tension can be drawn from any attempt to stop the comet because we all know that it won't work . 	0
director mimi leder came from her successful tries at direction with episodes of the hit television show " er . " 	0
her major film debut was the peacemaker , a pathetic and heartless action film . 	0
well , this time leder outdid herself , creating a film worse than that one . 	0
suggestion to ms . leder : please , stay away from the big screen , or at least the action genre . 	0
much of the blame can be placed on leder directly , because the pace is disastrously off . 	0
throughout the film we are given subtitles that tell us how much time has passed ( it goes from months to weeks to hours ) . 	0
it literally feels like this lapsed time is taking place in real-time--it's that boring . 	0
of course , leder isn't all to blame for it . 	0
screenwriters michael tolkin and bruce joel rubin have crafted a simplistic story that only gets worse with time . 	0
what starts out promising soon turns deadly ( for the audience anyway ) . 	0
chock full of cheesy one liners ( " you know , you are going to have more sex than anyone else in school ! " ) 	0
and stupid characters , you might think we were back in the 70s again . 	0
only one of the subplots is remotely interesting , while the rest are forgettable and boring . 	0
and the main plot is so outrageous that you can't figure out if this film is supposed to be an action , drama , or sci-fi . 	0
to put it simply : the special effects of this film are a hit and miss situation . 	0
that's right , 80% miss , and 20% hit . 	0
scenes above the earth are well done , and the orbiting ship is majestic . 	0
but the comet is a huge mistake , making it more laughable than frightening . 	0
the concept of even trying to land on a comet is preposterous enough , but that's forgiveable . 	0
what isn't forgiveable is actually having humans walk on the surface . 	0
give me a break , will ya ? 	0
and of course , the much hyped collision of comet and earth . 	0
well , it is far from spectacular , and it makes independence day look brilliant . 	0
the water rushing towards the land is effective , but once it hits the continent , the effects turn ridiculous . 	0
cgi water is used , and it looks so bad that i heard more laughs from the audience than shrieks . 	0
in fact , i may even recommend the film for those who want to see how bad effects can actually get these days . 	0
just when we think visual effects can't be improved , along comes a film to show that they really can and should be . 	0
one thing has struck a wrong note with me concerning mimi leder's direction , which also influences the actors . 	0
leder loves to show the actors' faces before and during moments of terror . 	0
this reminded me of another action director , renny harlin ( die hard 2 , cliffhanger ) . 	0
but harlin succeeds because he shows the faces of the victims in realistic situations . 	0
leder likes to flaunt people's fears via their faces , but instead of coming off as sympathetic , leder seems more of a sadist . 	0
one moment has an astronaut flying off into space . 	0
this should be enough to warrant a response from the audience , but leder wants to go farther and shows us the person's face while drifting into space . 	0
this is one of the cheapest ways to ellicit an emotional response from an audience , and i , for one , am not going to be fooled . 	0
on another note , leder's film only picks up its pace during the last fifteen minutes when the comet actually impacts . 	0
the pace does pick up , and some very emotional moments are shown . 	0
then again , when you watch people cry for their loved ones , it's obvious it will be emotional . 	0
it's mostly just a big trick to rope viewers into " feeling " for the characters , but it didn't work for me . 	0
but anyway , the actors do as much as they can with what they are given . 	0
t ? a leoni ( bad boys , tv's " the naked truth " ) is the best of the film , and she is given the meatiest role . 	0
her character is made stronger by leoni's presence , and we grow to care for her . 	0
robert duvall is energetic and fun to watch , but his character is turned into shreds by the plot . 	0
elijah wood also comes off rather successfully , but he still hasn't had many good roles ( wood , stick to drama ! 	0
you are too talented for this stuff ) . 	0
vanessa redgrave is barely acknowledgeable , and her performance is only enhanced by her strong presence on screen . 	0
maximilian schell is distracting , but he does provide some nice humor . 	0
morgan freeman has been infinitely better than this , and gives one of his most shallow performances to date ( which is quite remarkable for him ) . 	0
leelee sobieski could have been better , but i think she just suffered from a poorly written character . 	0
a special note should go to ron eldard and denise crosby . 	0
eldard is good in his role , but is limited by the plot . 	0
crosby is special to me personally because she was tasha yar from tv's " star trek : the next generation . " 	0
seeing her was one of the highlights of the film . 	0
overall , a very talented cast virtually wasted . 	0
deep impact is rated pg-13 for disaster related elements and brief language . 	0
this is one of the worst films of the year , and if it is any omen of things to come , this summer could be one of the worst ever . 	0
luckily , the x-files movie is coming up , and hopefully armageddon will be more successful . 	0
it's a shame that this film will do so successfully because it just isn't worth much . 	0
costing nearly $75 million , with special effects done by the illustrious ilm ( which is a huge shocker ) , and with a score composed by oscar-winner james horner ( titanic ) , one might have expected this to be more fun to witness and experience . 	0
well , it's not . 	0
when the comet does hit the earth , you almost wish it could just take this film along with it . 	0
 * * * the following review contains spoilers * * * 	0
 " it's just . . . 	0
the way . . . 	0
we are . " 	0
--- a rapist ( matt frewer ) responds to supergirl's ( helen slater ) query as to why she's being attacked , an example of the mind-numbingly bad dialogue in supergirl . 	0
i'll admit it . . . 	0
i love superman iii . 	0
i know it's hated amongst the superman faithful who dismiss it as nothing more than a vehicle for richard pryor , but i still think it's a worthy addition to the man of steel franchise . 	0
supergirl , a spin-off film of sorts from the series' same producers ( alexander and ilya salkind ) , doesn't even rival superman iii in terms of quality , let alone superman or superman ii . 	0
supergirl lost me from the opening scenes and went steadily downhill for the rest of its two hour plus running time . 	0
as the film begins we see the residents of argo city , a commune like place consisting of refugees from krypton which resides in " inner space " , go about their daily lives . 	0
ok . . . 	0
what ? 	0
so these are exiles from krypton , which blew up right ? 	0
were they living there before krypton exploded ? 	0
how do you get to " inner space " ? 	0
this whole " inner space " notion is never explained , particularly in terms of how these people get information from the outside world . 	0
how do they know where superman went ? 	0
how do they know he took the name clark kent and now works at the daily planet ? 	0
these kinds of things frustrate the hell out of me . 	0
argo city is kept running by a power source called the omegahedron . 	0
one day the founder of argo city , zaltar ( peter o' toole ) , gives the omegahedron to superman's cousin , kara ( helen slater ) , for use as inspiration in her art . 	0
kara uses it to create a bug-like thing which immediately crashes through the layer of " whatever " that protects the city . 	0
in the chaos , the omegahedron sails out through the opening , dooming the argonians to death . . . 	0
in three days time , or something . 	0
kara then climbs into a pod which zaltar had designed for interdimensional travel and chases after the omegahedron to save her world . 	0
the power source travels directly to earth and lands in the bowl of dip belonging to a minor-league witch named selena ( faye dunaway ) who , immediately before her dip was ruined , announced her desires to rule the world to her sometimes warlock boyfriend nigel ( peter cook ) . 	0
selena somehow knows that this ball from the sky will help her with her evil plans , and she sets out to achieve world domination . 	0
selena is unaware of course that kara has also arrived on earth , and that she's arrived as supergirl ( complete with appropriate costume ) . 	0
supergirl emerges from the bottom of a lake when she arrives . 	0
ok . . . 	0
huh ? 	0
why does the omegahedron fall from the sky but supergirl shoots out of the bottom of a lake ? 	0
attention movie : explain yourself ! 	0
i'm sorry , i can only suspend disbelief so much . 	0
i can't buy into any of this nonsense just because the movie wants me to . 	0
knowing that she needs a secret identity , supergirl basically " wills " herself into a school girl outfit ( complete with a different hairstyle ) , picks the alias linda lee and enrolls into school . 	0
she's given her dorm assignment , and who happens to be her roommate ? 	0
lois lane's sister , lucy . 	0
ok , coincidence is one thing folks , but we're getting really contrived now . 	0
what follows are some generic all-girls school hijinks . . . 	0
complete with evil bully girls ( mean for no reason , of course ) and even a shower scene ( ! ) . 	0
best moment though comes when supergirl decides to put a bra on over her school uniform and starts stuffing it with socks . 	0
at this point i'm rapidly wondering why i'm bothering with this nonsense . 	0
there is some credit to give to the film however . 	0
one lengthy and elaborate sequence featuring an " evil " bulldozer destroying a small town in search of its " prey " is very well done . 	0
also , its commendable to see genders reversed in the film , whereas the women have all the power and the men are merely objects and tools . 	0
hart bochner ( die hard ) is particularly fun as kara's love interest , a lovesick landscaper who is under a spell cast by selena ( although he is unfortunately part of one of the film's more ridiculous moments , when he has to be rescued from being tapped by some " menacing " bumper cars ) . 	0
then there were numerous little things that bothered me . 	0
the flying effects are never convincing for a moment . . . 	0
it's all too obvious that helen slater is hooked to wires . 	0
instead of having her look like she's flying , the filmmakers wanted her to be " graceful " , so she poses a lot and does ballet-type maneuvers . 	0
also , who are the first two humans to meet supergirl when she arrives on earth ? 	0
a pair of truck drivers/rapists who immediately attack her and then meet a " wacky " demise . 	0
there is also some rampant product placement in the film , most notably for popeye's , tylenol , and a&w root beer , with the latter actually putting its logo on the t-shirt of one of the rapists ( ? ! ) . 	0
finally , just one word : monsters . 	0
faye dunaway and peter o'toole ham it up unmercifully , however when o'toole overacts he's entertaining and when dunaway does it she's annoying ( her character actually says the line " seize them ! " 	0
at one point ) . 	0
dunaway's henchmen ( played by peter cook and brenda vaccaro ) fare much better , with vaccaro coming off best as the equivalent of ned beatty's otis character from the first two superman movies . 	0
helen slater effectively portrays supergirl as the innocent , naive character she's written to be , as she's able to gaze at flowers and bunnies with the right amount of genuine wonder to make it believable . 	0
believability aside though , it's still annoying . 	0
now despite all this negativity ( and i'm not alone here . . . supergirl is not a well liked nor a well respected movie in many circles ) , leave it to the good people at anchor bay entertainment to actually make people not only interested , but excited about its release on dvd ! 	0
they have released two separate editions of the film on dvd , to the delight of many people ( including myself . . . 	0
yet i'm still unclear as to why , since this movie is so awful ) . 	0
the first and most widely available dvd release features the international version of the film which runs 10 minutes longer than the print which ran in u . s . theaters . 	0
the movie is presented in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 2 . 35 : 1 , is enhanced for 16x9 televisions , and has been remastered in full thx glory . 	0
extras on the disc include : a full length audio commentary track with director jeannot szwarc and " special project consultant " scott michael bosco , the excellent 50-minute documentary from 1984 called supergirl-the making of a feature ( dig that workout montage ! ) , 5 trailers , 3 tv spots , talent bios , in-depth storyboards ( accompanied by score from the movie ) , and assorted still galleries . 	0
the transfer on this international version is incredible . . . 	0
you'd think you were watching a new release . 	0
images are sharp , colors jump off the screen , and the picture is free of scratches or artifacts . 	0
only some special effects sequences show the wear of time , and there just isn't much that can be done about that ( unless you're obsessive like george lucas ) . 	0
the new thx approved audio is loud and clear in all the right places , however you'll be hearing absurd dialogue and a mediocre jerry goldsmith score ( which is completely unrelated to john williams' classic superman theme and sounds better suited for a cannon films' golan-globus production ) . 	0
the commentary track featuring director szwarc and project consultant bosco is a step in the right direction in the evolution of audio commentaries . 	0
bosco seems to be an expert in all things supergirl and is there with szwarc to ensure that there's no dead air on the track . 	0
bosco probes szwarc for information on virtually everyone and everything that comes onscreen , and we learn a great deal more about the film as a result of his participation . 	0
although , at times you can tell that bosco is looking for a specific response from szwarc , and is surprised when he doesn't get that response . 	0
we learn some fascinating tidbits on the track , most notably the " almost " appearance in the film by christopher reeve . 	0
great detail is given about superman's proposed role in the original script before reeve ( wisely ) dropped out . 	0
as it stands , superman is written off early on in the film when we hear a radio broadcast mention that he is billions of light years away on some sort of peace mission . 	0
for the sake of brevity , i won't even get into that one . 	0
szwarc also reveals that is was the conscious decision of the salkinds ( and everyone else agreed ) that supergirl needed to stand on its own , replacing the science fiction of the superman films with cutsy " whimsical fantasy " nonsense . 	0
bosco also points out scenes not in the american release as they come along , claiming that had they been in the original release it would have been a hit at the box office . 	0
again , for the sake of brevity , i won't even get into that one . 	0
anchor bay has also released a limited edition ( only 50 , 000 copies pressed ) two-disc set . 	0
disc one contains everything mentioned for the regular release . 	0
disc two features the never before seen director's cut of the film , which runs 138 minutes long . 	0
the additions mainly consist of scene extensions which don't add much of note , except for a few moments which lengthen peter o'toole's screen time ( particularly during his latter appearances ) . 	0
the print is rough in spots and the sound is only in mono , but fans of the film won't care . 	0
one question though . . . 	0
shouldn't the director's commentary be on the director's cut of the film ? 	0
i'd never seen supergirl before i sat down to watch this dvd . 	0
i was nine when it was released to theaters , and even then i was smart enough to inform my parents not to take me to see it . 	0
so when i popped the dvd into my player and sat down in my easy chair i had no idea what to expect . 	0
i knew the film wasn't beloved and i never had any interest in it before , but i was willing to give it a shot because of the impressive amount of work put into the disc . 	0
as the disc began to spin i was rather impressed with the opening sequence , which made me sit up and wonder if my assumptions all this time could have been wrong . 	0
come to find out however it was just the chase digital stereo logo . . . 	0
so i slunk back into my seat as the nightmare started . 	0
at the end of the film , supergirl flies back into the lake with the omegahedron , and flies back to argo city . 	0
ugh , i give up . 	0
i'm surprised i even made it to the end of the film not once , not twice , but three times to review these discs . 	0
supergirl is definitely a terrific dvd package , but a very lousy movie . 	0
 " jaws " is a rare film that grabs your attention before it shows you a single image on screen . 	1
the movie opens with blackness , and only distant , alien-like underwater sounds . 	1
then it comes , the first ominous bars of composer john williams' now infamous score . 	1
dah-dum . 	1
from there , director steven spielberg wastes no time , taking us into the water on a midnight swim with a beautiful girl that turns deadly . 	1
right away he lets us know how vulnerable we all are floating in the ocean , and once " jaws " has attacked , it never relinquishes its grip . 	1
perhaps what is most outstanding about " jaws " is how spielberg builds the movie . 	1
he works it like a theatrical production , with a first act and a second act . 	1
unlike so many modern filmmakers , he has a great deal of restraint , and refuses to show us the shark until the middle of the second act . 	1
until then , he merely suggests its presence with creepy , subjective underwater shots and williams' music . 	1
he's building the tension bit by bit , so when it comes time for the climax , the shark's arrival is truly terrifying . 	1
he doesn't let us get bored with the imagery . 	1
the first act opens with police chief martin brody ( roy scheider ) , a new york cop who has taken an easy , peaceful job running the police station on amity island , a fictitious new england resort town where there hasn't been a murder or a gun fired in 25 years . 	1
the island is shaken up by several vicious great white shark attacks right before the fourth of july , and the mayor , larry vaughn ( murray hamilton ) , doesn't want to shut down the beaches because the island is reliant on summer tourist money . 	1
brody is joined by matt hooper ( richard dreyfuss ) , a young , ambitious shark expert from the marine institute . 	1
hooper is as fascinated by the shark as he is determined to help brody stop it -- his knowledge about the exact workings of the shark ( " it's a perfect engine , an eating machine " ) make it that much more terrifying . 	1
when vaughn finally relents , hooper and brody join a crusty old shark killer named quint ( robert shaw ) on his decrepit boat , the orca , to search for the shark . 	1
the entire second act takes place on the orca as the three men hunt the shark , and inevitably , are hunted by it . 	1
 " jaws " is a thriller with a keen sense of humor and an incredible sense of pacing , tension , and horror . 	1
it is like ten movies all rolled into one , and it's no wonder it took america by storm in the summer of 1975 , taking in enough money to crown it the box office champ of all time ( until it was unceremoniously dethroned in 1977 by " star wars " ) . 	1
even today , fascination with this film is on par with hitchcock's " psycho , " and it never seems to age . 	1
although grand new technology exists that makes the technical sequences , including several mechanical sharks , obsolete , none of it could improve the film because it only would lead to overkill . 	1
the technical limitations faced by spielberg in 1975 may have actually produced a better film because it forced him to rely on traditional cinematic elements like pacing , characterization , sharp editing , and creative photography , instead of simply dousing the audience with digital shark effects . 	1
scheider , dreyfuss , and shaw were known actors at the time " jaws " was made , but none of them had the draw of a robert redford or paul newman . 	1
nevertheless , this film guaranteed them all successful careers because each gave an outstanding performance and refused to be overshadowed by the shark . 	1
scheider hits just the right notes as a sympathetic husband and father caught in the political quagmire of doing what's right and going against the entire town . 	1
 " it's your first summer here , you know , " mayor vaughn warns him . 	1
dreyfuss , who had previously been seen in " american graffiti " ( 1973 ) and " the apprenticeship of duddy kravitz " ( 1974 ) gives a surprisingly mature , complex performance for someone who had literally only played kids and teenagers . 	1
however , most outstanding is the gnarled performance by robert shaw as the movie's captain ahab , a performance sorely overlooked by the academy awards . 	1
bordering of parody , shaw plays quint as a grizzled old loner whose machismo borders on masochism . 	1
he's slightly deranged , and shaw's performance is almost a caricature . 	1
however , there is one scene late in the film , when he and brody and hooper are below deck on the orca comparing scars . 	1
quint is drawn into telling the story of his experiences aboard the u . s . s . 	1
indianapolis , a navy ship in world war ii that was sunk by the japanese . 	1
his tale of floating in the water for more than a week with over 1 , 000 other men while swarms of sharks slowly devoured them them is actually more hair-raising than anything spielberg put on screen . 	1
shaw delivers the story in one long take , and it is the best acting in the film . 	1
of course , we can't leave out the shark itself ; with its black eyes , endless rows of teeth , and insatiable urge to eat , it is basically the epitome of all mankind's fears about what is unknown and threatening in nature . 	1
a shark is such a perfect nemesis it is real -- having survived sinch the dinosaurs , great whites do exist , they can be as large as the shark in " jaws , " and they are a threat . 	1
every one of spielberg's subjective underwater shots makes us feel queasy because lets us see how we look to the shark : a bunch of writihing , dangling , completely unprotected legs just ready to be chomped into . 	1
the shark in " jaws " was actually a combination of actual footage and five different mechanical sharks ( all nicknamed " bruce " by the crew ) built to be shot from different angles . 	1
many have forgotten , but " jaws " was a sort of precursor to " waterworld " ( 1995 ) , a movie's who soggy production and cost overruns had universal studios worried about a bomb . 	1
but , as we can see now , spielberg overcame all the obstacles , and delivered one of the finest primal scare-thrillers ever to come out of hollywood . 	1
you've heard all the hype . 	1
you've seen all their faces - natalie portman ( the professional ) as queen amidala , liam neeson ( schindler's list ) as qui-gon jinn , ewan mcgregor ( trainspotting ) as obi-wan kenobi , and jake lloyd ( jingle all the way ) as young anakin skywalker . 	1
if you've read any reviews , you've also probably heard that this movie fails to live up to the magic and humanity of the first trilogy . 	1
you also may have heard that this one's too kiddie-friendly , and doesn't have enough content for adults . 	1
believe the hype . 	1
the effects are stunning , the digitalized creatures are amazingly realistic , the lightsaber duels are amazing , and queen amidala's sumptuous robes are fit to be worn by queen elizabeth . 	1
but there's something missing here , and it isn't budget or effects - it's everything money * can't * buy . 	1
the actors struggle as best they can to flesh out broad-stroked and flat characters . 	1
the most successful at this is liam neeson who , as qui-gon jinn , a jedi master to young obi-wan kenobi , has quiet dignity and a wise , commanding presence . 	1
he is the anchor to this movie , as he is the one character who george lucas apparently spent some time fleshing out . 	1
portman's queen amidala and mcgregor's obi-wan kenobi don't fare nearly so well . 	1
amidala , the future mother of luke and leia and the queen of a peaceful planet being invaded by the trade federation ( ? ! ? ) , comes off as stoic , stilted and caricatured ( it appears as though she was a vulcan geisha in a former life ) . 	1
and obi-wan , although mcgregor makes him very endearing , has so little screen time that he's nothing but a robin to qui-gon jinn's batman . 	1
however , mcgregor does struggle manfully to infuse this surprisingly small supporting role with a spark of genuine insight and humanity , and he does a good job . 	1
he also absolutely nails alec guiness' ( obi-wan in episode 4 - 6 ) scottish accent , and that really makes his presence in the film more profound than it might have been otherwise . 	1
in fact , lucas seems to bank on that preexisting knowledge quite a bit , and that's one of the problems with this film . 	1
i would never call myself a " star wars " fan - especially not considering what it means to be a fanatic these days - but i've always enjoyed the films along with everyone else in america . 	1
however , if you are the one person in america who * hasn't * seen the films at all or even recently , or who doesn't bother to brush-up on the names of obscure characters , you may be hopelessly lost . 	1
for example , one of the film's main ( nefarious ) characters is senator palpatine . 	1
for those of you not recently steeped in " star wars " trivia , emperor palpatine is that scary hooded apparition who was darth vader's master in " return of the jedi " and " empire strikes back . " 	1
so , obviously , his appearance in " phantom menace " is meant to stir some echoes of his later role in the series , thus making his role here more meaningful . 	1
a lot of the movie is like that . 	1
r2-d2 and c-3po make token appearances , and it's obvious that lucas is banking on the audience's pre-existing fondness for them . . . 	1
because he doesn't do much to add to it in any way . 	1
same goes for jabba the hutt , who doesn't look as much mean here as he does corpulent and lazy . 	1
even * planets * make foreshadowing guest appearances in this film - tatooine ( the desert world where luke grew up ) , coruscant ( the cloud city from " empire strikes back " ) , and alderaan ( leia's home planet - which we never actually see - that gets blown up in " star wars " ) show up or are mentioned briefly in passing . 	1
what's the result of tying so many plot points and characters to future films ? 	1
the answer is that this one seems surprisingly empty . 	1
there's no meat - no substance - that makes you want to love the characters as they are , not as they will be . 	1
another problem is that there are actually * too many * alien characters in the film . 	1
i was distracted by the fact that two of the main evil characters - strange looking aliens who looked like gila monsters - had mouths that barely moved , making them look more like muppets than actual characters . 	1
and jar jar binks , a silly roger rabbitish amphibious character , is intended as comic relief , but what he really becomes is annoying - and fast . 	1
unlike chewbacca and c-3po , who got their humanity ( if you'll pardon the expression ) from their interactions with the human characters , jar jar is often left to interact mostly with others of his kind , at times making the movie seem like nothing more than a very expensive " teenage mutant ninja turtles . " 	1
furthermore , the dialogue is often stilted and corny , and sometimes downright infantile , thereby rendering some characters into nothing more than bystanders to the plot . 	1
oddly , this isn't just * my * judgment - lucas has said that he designed this film for kids . 	1
well , he's done a good job . 	1
the hero of this film , of course , is young anakin , but it was very hard for me to feel any kinship or identify with an eight-year-old boy . 	1
that's not jake lloyd's fault , though - he does a good job of being a cute kid , which is apparently all lucas asked of him . 	1
that's another mistake , of course , because the cute tyke becomes darth vader . 	1
warning : spoilers ahead ! ! ! ! 	1
in my opinion , there was not nearly enough foreshadowing of anakin's future evil in the film . 	1
the boy is all blond flowing hair and rosy cheeks , and there's nothing more than a spark of aggression in him throughout the entire movie . 	1
he has a doting mother ( pernilla august , making her first english- language film ) and is a slave to a gross flying gnome on tatooine . 	1
but the only indication the audience gets that this kid isn't all hearts and roses is yoda's hesitation in allowing him to train as a jedi under qui-gon jinn . 	1
his explanation ? 	1
 " his future is clouded . " 	1
 ( warning : major spoiler ahead . 	1
enter at your own risk . ) 	1
of course , the noble qui-gon dies at the hand of darth maul , a scary-looking sith lord who excels at the jedi arts , but has turned to the dark side . 	1
this dude has maybe two lines in the entire movie , but he establishes his presence through his amazing moves with his double-sided lightsaber , and his scary facial makeup . 	1
because qui-gon never gets a chance to train the young anakin in the ways of the force , obi-wan , qui-gon's young padawan apprentice ( one level below knightdom ) , must take over the training himself . 	1
so , at the end of the movie , we end where the saga actually begins - with obi-wan kenobi and his young apprentice , anakin " darth vader " skywalker . 	1
did this story need to be told ? 	1
i would say no . 	1
but is it a worthwhile movie to see ? 	1
absolutely . 	1
if you don't enter the theater with jedi-size expectations , and you simply want to be treated to an enjoyable visual spectacle , then this is your movie . 	1
the tatooine pod races are a triumph of effects and computer animation . 	1
the digitalized backgrounds on some of the planets are an astonishing sight . 	1
and yoda and young obi-wan are worth seeing for their origins in a simpler , happier time . 	1
above all , this is a fun movie . 	1
not deep , not meaningful , and not profound . 	1
but fun . 	1
maybe next time , lucas will hire lawrence kasdan to co-write the script , and the guy who directed " empire " will direct . 	1
because if lucas does the next one himself , it will be lacking the one thing it needs the most - potential . 	1
warning : this review contains some spoilers for the 1964 film " fail-safe . " 	1
if you haven't seen the film yet , proceed with caution . 	1
nutshell : a relevant , intelligent , suspenseful drama . 	1
still powerful today , even after the end of the cold war . 	1
-------------------- " fail-safe " ( usa , 1964 ) drama , 111 minutes 	1
screenplay by walter bernstein based on the novel by eugene burdick and harvey wheeler produced by max e . youngstein directed by sidney lumet 	1
review by jamahl epsicokhan -------------------- 	1
the most ironic aspect of nuclear war is that it doesn't have a winning side and a losing side . 	1
in a nuclear confrontation , everybody loses , and the aftereffects have devastating effects that impact the entire world--assuming the world survives . 	1
the idea--and perhaps the only real option--is to avoid war at all costs . 	1
this is the theme of sidney lumet's " fail-safe , " a fictional drama based on the novel by eugene burdick and harvey wheeler . 	1
 " fail-safe " takes place during the heart of the cold war ( the actual film was released two years after the cuban missile crisis ) , when the united states and the soviet union were in static discord over an issue that can be summarized in a single word : communism . 	1
the premise centers around a combination of accidents and operation flaws . 	1
five u . s . bombers carrying nuclear warheads are ordered to set a routine course for moscow after an unidentified aircraft is spotted heading toward america . 	1
the unidentified aircraft turns out to be a commercial airliner , but a mechanical failure strikes the military base that commands the bombers . 	1
suddenly out of contact , and with standing orders to remain on course until receiving new directives , the bomber pilots cannot be recalled , and they proceed to moscow with the intention of destroying it with a nuclear strike . 	1
a great deal of " fail-safe " 's plot follows various characters as they attempt to devise ways of stopping the u . s . bombers from reaching russia's borders--at any cost . 	1
the plot is compelling , and the story creates urgency and dread by painting the grimmest of worst case scenarios . 	1
the reality sets in quickly as one attempt to turn the bombers after another fails . 	1
general bogan ( frank overton ) , taking orders directly from the president of the united states himself ( henry fonda ) , is powerless--the fate of the world lies in the hands of an automated , pre-programmed system that may not be stoppable , simply because the creators of the war machines were too efficient in their task to make a no-win situation winnable . 	1
the events in " fail-safe " are fascinating because they're anything but predictable , but the real reason " fail-safe " works is because it understands more about nuclear war than what exists within the confines of its plot . 	1
a key ingredient to the film is its ability to create an ongoing polemic about nuclear war , communism , the cold war , and the united states' role in all of it . 	1
most of this is through the film's use of the character groeteschele ( walter matthau ) , an arrogant civilian theorist of nuclear weapons use who , incidentally , is on the president's advising staff for analyzing the statistical plausibility of waging a nuclear war . 	1
many of the film's most pointed messages arise from discussions where groeteschele is one of the key voices . 	1
early in the film , he hosts a dinner party where he explains the importance of " strategy " in a nuclear assault to " minimize " casualties . 	1
 " what's the difference between 60 million and 100 million dead ? " 	1
a guest asks impatiently . 	1
 " forty million , " groeteschele responds wryly . 	1
the problem with groeteschele's mindset is that he * believes * nuclear combat to be a viable method of war . 	1
the only difference to him between nuclear armageddon and conventional warfare is the raw data and the casualty totals . 	1
groeteschele realizes that these weapons can destroy the world several times over . 	1
yet his answer to the arms race is not to slow down and try to cool the situation off , as general black ( dan o'herlihy ) has often recommended . 	1
on the contrary--according to groeteschele , that would lead to russia having * more * nuclear weapons than the u . s . , which would clearly put america at a disadvantage . 	1
such a stance was perhaps the central paradox and misguided practice of the arms race . 	1
 " fail-safe " clearly sees it as one of the central issues of the cold war , and , likewise , it becomes a central theme in the film . 	1
why continue to build such machines of mass destruction while already possessing enough of them to destroy the world several times over ? 	1
is it wise ? 	1
is it even logical ? 	1
no , not really . 	1
although " fail-safe " is more about the issue of nuclear weapons than it is about the political ramifications of communism , there is a scene in the film that deals with communism in an intentionally superficial , one-sided sort of way . 	1
again , this is achieved through groeteschele , who is easily the film's most important character in terms of the larger-theme significance . 	1
in addition to providing the central " pro-nuclear war " voice that the film warns against , he also makes key remarks about communists that show just how much fear and resentment people of the period were prone to when it came to communism . 	1
the context the film uses suggests that this hatred was often glib . 	1
one of groeteschele's " logical " trains of thought ventures so far into fantasy theoretical prediction that it's merely absurd . 	1
he labels the average marxist an " unfeeling , calculating machine " that will do whatever it takes to preserve itself . 	1
groeteschele takes it so far as to say that if the u . s . drops the warhead on moscow , the soviets will * instantly * surrender , for to retaliate would invite counter-measures that would further destroy russia's home soil--which must be preserved at all costs . 	1
groeteschele seems to forget these people are human beings with emotions ; general black quickly reminds him that the soviets would attack out of revenge--as any normal person would . 	1
the irony here is groeteschele's own mechanical theorizing . 	1
he is so quick to judge the enemy that he doesn't even realize his own seemingly programmed thought patterns . 	1
once the film makes it evident that turning the u . s . bombers will be impossible , the question becomes what the * consequences * of destroying moscow will be . 	1
just how will the soviet union's leader react , and what can the president do to convey his best intentions ? 	1
 ( just * how * does one pass off the deaths of millions of people as an * mishap * ? ) 	1
with the help of his translator buck ( larry hagman ) , the president negotiates at length with the soviet leader , in scenes that prove amazingly taut and powerful in their simplicity , with lumet's long takes of fonda and hagman in the same frame , exchanging the dialog between the president and the soviet leader . 	1
without getting into too much detail , i will say that the compromise they ultimately reach is very costly , yet necessary and as sensible as possible under the circumstances . 	1
 ( that is , as sensible as a nuclear " incident " can probably be . ) 	1
it does accomplish what it must : it avoids an all-out war , something that simply isn't possible because of its all-too-real consequences . 	1
dramatically , the ending is quite powerful , and the use of o'herlihy's character as the symbolic " matador " ( providing a bookend to the film by ending the story while tying into his dream sequence from the film's opening ) , is particularly appropriate . 	1
 " fail-safe " is a production of a major hollywood studio ( released by columbia pictures ) , and it has the structure of a high-tension suspense thriller that one might expect from a hollywood film . 	1
nevertheless , under lumet's direction and walter bernstein's intelligent adaptation of burdick's and wheeler's novel , the film continues to have a lasting effect even after the events on screen have unfolded . 	1
the film often warns that the automation of war is something that may make nuclear holocaust an unintentional consequence of such mass arming . 	1
but it was the conscious , human choice to * initialize * this automatic arming that " fail-safe " also finds dangerous . 	1
in retrospect , the arms race seems to be one of the most puzzling exercises in futility of the century . 	1
it's just fortunate that both sides were finally able to come to their senses and slow down , rather than continuing groeteschele's dangerous approach of speeding up and causing a possible meltdown . 	1
note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 	1
be forewarned . 	1
it's startling to consider that it was only a few years ago that film distributors would worriedly rearrange their summer release schedules in order to give the annual disney animated feature juggernaut a wide berth . 	1
the lion king had just cracked $300 million domestic in gross to become one of the most profitable ventures in film history , continuing to build on a sturdy base left by prior flicks aladdin and beauty and the beast . 	1
since then , though , disney's animated features have shown an unbroken string of diminishing returns , with pocahontas , the hunchback of notre dame , and this year's hercules successively proving less and less potent . 	1
with the once seemingly-impregnable disney stranglehold on the market share suddenly looking mighty vulnerable , and faced with their first serious competition in the animated film market from fox's anastasia , disney has brought xmas home early by dusting off the feature which sparked the modern revival of feature animation , the little mermaid . 	1
while the animation for the film is , as is typically the case for disney films , unquestionably top-notch , the magic in the little mermaid is not its animation , but the wonderful innocence of its story and its rousingly superb music . 	1
the film's storyline is fairly straightforward -- young teen falls for handsome man , father disapproves and assigns hapless chaperone to his daughter , teen disobeys father and goes to desperate lengths to win her man -- except in this case , the chaperone is a crab , the teen is a young mermaid , and the object of her desire is a human prince . 	1
what makes the little mermaid so affecting and so emotionally resonant is the richness and charm of its characters and the sheer clarity and honest simplicity of their emotions . 	1
from the moment mermaid ariel lays her eyes on prince eric , she's resolutely smitten , and she's such a pure and endearing character that one can't help but invest their heart with her . 	1
this simple but touching love story , coupled with a healthy dose of smart humour , makes the little mermaid a remarkably captivating picture . 	1
one of the interesting things about the little mermaid is something which now curiously dates it : the voices cast for its motley crew of characters . 	1
this film was produced just before the distracting concept of using celebrity voices became in vogue , which started to a certain degree with beauty and the beast and was irrevocably exacerbated by robin williams' much-heralded turn in aladdin ; by the release of the lion king and henceforth , the majority of characters in the animated films were voiced by celebrities . 	1
while it's understandable that animated features lacking the name-recognition or drawing power of disney ( say , balto's use of kevin bacon and bridget fonda , or even anastasia's showcasing of meg ryan and john cusack ) would be forced to turn to this strategy in order to hype their products , it's unfortunate that even disney has embraced this policy . 	1
do we really need to hear , say , demi moore as esmerelda in the hunchback of notre dame ? 	1
is the film's entertainment value really augmented by hearing a recognizable voice , rather than a voice which best suits the role ? 	1
 ( i'm not exactly on the edge of my seat for eddie murphy in the upcoming mulan . ) 	1
fortunately , the performers who voice the characters in the little mermaid , although perhaps more obscure , are impeccably cast . 	1
chief among them is jodi benson , a 1992 tony nominee for her stage work in crazy for you , who voices the film's heroine ariel to perfection ; with a wonderfully expressive speaking voice full of youthful vigor , and gorgeous singing voice , ms . benson provides a most engaging anchor for the film . 	1
 ( she's the only reason i'd even consider catching flubber . ) 	1
similarly , samuel e . wright is terrific in the showy role of sebastian , the weary guardian crab . 	1
he easily milks his lovable character's comic moments for all they're worth , and his rendering of two of the little mermaid's big tunes -- " under the sea " and " kiss the girl " -- have become the stuff of legend . 	1
pat carrol is deliciously villainous and vampy as the evil sea-witch ursula , while kenneth mars' booming voice conveys the stern yet affectionate authority of ariel's father , king triton . 	1
in large roles and small ( edie mcclurg as dotting busybody carlotta is ideal , and rene auberjonois has great fun with his exuberant french chef ) , the little mermaid is impeccably cast . 	1
of course , the little mermaid will probably be best remembered for its remarkable collection of songs composed by the songwriting team of alan menken ( music ) and howard ashman ( lyrics ) , who had created little shop of horrors and would go on to compose beauty and the beast and aladdin for disney before mr . ashman's untimely death . 	1
not only are mr . menken's tunes unbearably catchy , but mr . ashman's charming lyrics are fully integrated into the film's storyline so that the songs are a virtual extension of the character's dialogue , and consequently work wonderfully within the context of the film . 	1
mr . menken's score for the film is equally top-notch ; the sequence where eric ( voiced by christopher daniel barnes ) and ariel tour his kingdom in a horse-drawn carriage becomes magical and wondrous with mr . menken's fine score . 	1
it appears that most people prefer the delightfully colourful production number for the calypso-styled " under the sea " as joyfully crooned by mr . wright , which won the academy award and golden globe awards for best song -- indeed , one of the many little joys in screening the film during its re-release was listening to children scattered throughout the audience singing along with the tune -- but my favourite is ms . benson's heartfelt rendition of the ballad " part of your world " , an achingly beautiful tune of yearning and hope ( wonderfully lyricized by mr . ashman ) which , accompanied by the film's most dazzlingly polished animation sequence , packs an emotional wallop which literally brought tears to my eyes . 	1
during the song's reprise , which builds to a crescendo with ariel arching on a rock as a wave crashes in , the cumulative effect is nothing short of breathtaking , and one becomes acutely aware that this single instance is one of the finest in animation history . 	1
as of this writing , november 1997 has come to an end , as has disney's limited 17-day re-release of the little mermaid . 	1
there's no question that the primary motivation for , if not the film's reissue itself , at least its timing , was to reinforce disney's dominance in the animation market and provide direct competition to fox's costly new upstart animation division and their first major venture , anastasia . 	1
in every respect , the re-release of the little mermaid appears to be a success -- the film's 1997 grosses have pushed its cumulative domestic gross over the magic $100 million mark ; the little mermaid proved to have remarkably strong drawing power for a film initially released only eight years ago and in many homes on video , pulling in close to $10 million in its opening weekend ; and although nobody could possibly expect the little mermaid to possibly defeat the aggressively-marketed anastasia in head-to-head competition , it siphoned enough from the fox film's opening weekend totals to keep anastasia from the coveted weekend leader spot , allowing for disney's odious flubber to sweep in on the subsequent week and wrestle the family demographic market share away . 	1
but although disney's motives in the reissue of the little mermaid were self-serving and protectionist , the real winner is the public . 	1
any reason to put this film back into theatres is a good one , and it's a true joy to see this heartwarming gem back on the silver screen . 	1
the little mermaid is the best film to come out of the disney's modern animation renaissance , and one of the greatest animated films ever made . 	1
in intolerance , d . w . griffith told four different historical stories at the same time , cutting from one to the other . 	1
each of the stories builds to a fast-paced climax . 	1
in magnolia , paul thomas anderson tells several stories each just tangentially connected to the others . 	1
yet the stories and where they are going are all independent . 	1
what is strange about these stories is that they are all synchronized . 	1
each story builds to a tense moment ( or what appears to be intended to be a tense moment ) but then lets the tension dissolve . 	1
while the tension dissipates one character starts singing a song and in each plotline the major characters sing along , even though they are not in the same scene . 	1
then toward the end the stories each build to a tense moment again . 	1
it is almost as if the characters are somehow psychically linked . 	1
this creates some strange effects . 	1
the stories are about empty desperate people with dysfunctional relationships . 	1
the strands have varying degrees of bizarre content . 	1
we have the story of a dying man earl partridge ( jason robards ) wanting to get in touch with his son and make amends . 	1
phil parma ( philip seymour hoffman ) is his nurse who is frantic to help partridge achieve his final goal . 	1
partridge's young wife linda ( julianne moore ) is getting more and more anxious as partridge dies , but for an unsuspected reason . 	1
frank mackey ( tom cruise ) runs the kinds of self-help seminar that businesses like so much , but he aims his at teaching disaffected men how to be real shit-heels in dealing with women in an angry backlash to women's lib . 	1
officer jim kurring ( john c . reilly ) is a patrolman who has a need to feel he is making the world a better place . 	1
jimmy gator ( philip baker hall ) hosts a popular children's tv quiz show that really exploits and destroys children as we see from the stories of current quiz kid stanley spector ( jeremy blackman ) and former quiz kid donnie smith ( william h . macy ) . 	1
the film juggles all these stories for over three hours , but even after all this time not one story is resolved satisfactorily . 	1
each story moves toward a single bizarre common climax , but it is not one that seems to do much but derail each story . 	1
the common climax itself is ambiguous in many ways and it fails to really tie up any of the stories . 	1
the film seems to be built around strange events and weird history , but it really has little to do with the content of the stories , though they all are connected in part by one weird event . 	1
magnolia will probably bring some much deserved attention to paul thomas anderson , though in my opinion his two previous films , hard eight and boogie nights were better told stories . 	1
it is interesting that one starts to look forward to actors from anderson's company . 	1
john c . reilly seems to be a standard fixture . 	1
particularly notable is philip baker hall who gave a mesmerizing performance from the first scene of hard eight . 	1
here he several of the characters are mesmerizing , but that characteristic is not really used . 	1
as studies of characters these stories are each worth following . 	1
as well-rounded stories with a beginning , middle and end , they leave something to be desired . 	1
but the film is willing to do the unexpected and that helps make the film worth sitting through . 	1
i rate it a 7 on the 0 to 10 scale and a low +2 on the -4 to +4 scale . 	1
heavy spoiler . . . 	1
heavy spoiler . . . 	1
heavy spoiler . . . 	1
heavy spoiler . . . 	1
during the strange climactic event of the film we get multiple messages from the filmmaker that the event we are seeing really does happen . 	1
and in actual fact , it does . 	1
since biblical times rains of frogs have been interpreted as signs of displeasure of the gods . 	1
it is , however , a perfectly natural , if somewhat unnerving , phenomenon . 	1
the cause is associated with whirlwinds . 	1
we know that tornadoes over land can rip up land and even objects of some size from the ground and hurl them into the air , holding them aloft . 	1
the reader may remember the unfortunate cow in twister . 	1
smaller objects can be hurled high into the atmosphere and then be kept aloft by the updrafts for surprisingly long periods of time much as hail and chunks of ice are . 	1
when the whirlwind is over water , animals near the surface , frequently fish and frogs , may suffer the same fate . 	1
essentially they are vacuumed up by the whirlwind , held aloft by updrafts , and finally dropped elsewhere . 	1
so while the rain is possible , some doubts do creep in . 	1
the rain of frogs depicted in this film may be of greater scale than i had pictured for a rain of frogs . 	1
it seems unlikely the frogs would still be alive when dropped . 	1
it is not clear that geographic conditions are right for los angeles to have this sort of phenomenon . 	1
 ( frankly i have no idea on these points . ) 	1
otherwise the event was quite believable . 	1
what we see in this film is much more credible than the phenomena we saw in volcano . 	1
in the film it is left ambiguous if the rain is a sign from god since there are many references to exodus 8 : 2 . 	1
 " and the frogs shall come up both on thee and upon thy people , and upon all thy servants . " 	1
however a rain of frogs , though it feels biblical , is most definitely not a biblical portent . 	1
note that the previous verse says " and the river shall bring forth frogs abundantly which shall go up . . . , " 	1
so the bible is referring not to a rain but to an infestation from the river . 	1
the only other reference to frogs in the bible is as a symbol for uncleanness in revelation 16 : 13 . 	1
